It was at my hometown public library and  half a dozen people came out. I just kind of stood there and rambled. There were a lot of awkward silences. One guy clapped.
Since then I’ve given over 500 keynote speeches. I am still getting better. I have a long way to go. One thing I’ve always done is collect speech transcripts and bits of poetry. I study them — inhale them — to see greatness in action. How do they build connection? How do they structure their messages? What’s the science? What’s the art?
This is a page of my favorite speech transcripts and poetry:
“What I regret most in my life are failures of kindness” by George Saunders
Mississippi Testimony by Brandon Boulware
“What, to the slave, is the fourth of July?” by Frederick Douglass
Post-Game Speech on Jacob Blake and Culture of Fear by Coach Doc Rivers
“The Other America” by Dr Martin Luther King Jr
“I’ve Been to the Mountaintop” by Martin Luther King Jr
Think Like a Bronze Medalist, not Silver by Derek Sivers
On Children by Khalil Gibran
“68 bits of unsolicited advice” by Kevin Kelly
Television by Roald Dahl
I believe in superheroes by IN-Q
“Why did I say “yes” to speak here” by Malcolm Gladwell
2020 Screen Actors Guild Acceptance Speech by Brad Pitt
“What does why mean” by Richard Feynman
“Invent your own life’s meaning” by Bill Watterson
When Death Comes by Mary Oliver
Pale Blue Dot by Carl Sagan
Press conference answer on ‘long snapping’ by Bill Belichick
If— by Rudyard Kipling
“We don’t move on from grief. We move forward with it” by Nora McInerny
To Laugh Much and Often by Bessie Anderson Stanley
Blessing for the New Year by Kayleen Asbo
Nobel Acceptance Speech by John Steinbeck
You Learn by Anonymous
“On the soul-sustaining necessity of resisting self-comparison and fighting cynicism” by Maria Popova
Maximus, to himself by Charles Olson
New Day’s Lyric by Amanda Gorman
By the Well of Living and Seeing, Part II, Section 28: During the Second World War by Charles Reznikoff
Be Drunk by Charles Baudelaire
Quotes On Reading by Marcel Proust
Two powerful songs about fatherhood by Harry Chapin & John Lennon
Sauntering by Christopher Morley
There is no Frigate Like a Book by Emily Dickinson
Dreamland by Mark Twain
“You Are Brilliant and the Earth is Hiring” by Paul Hawken
What You Missed That Day You Were Absent From Fourth Grade by Brad Modlin
The Sun by Mary Oliver
Dust If You Must by Rose Milligan
Don’t Hesitate by Mary Oliver
Mother to Son by Langston Hughes
Do not ask your children to strive by William Martin
The Mind of Absolute Trust by Seng-ts’an
Watching the Wheels by John Lennon
Sparrow Envy by J. Drew Lanham
‘A better measure for society’ by Robert F. Kennedy
Leisure by W.H. Davies
"The right to the future tense" by Shoshana Zuboff.